== 1.1.3 / 2011-08-27
* Converted to 'hoe' for release.
* Converted tests to RSpec 2.
* Extracted the body of htmldiff into a class available from
  diff/lcs/htmldiff.
* Migrated development and issue tracking to GitHub.
* Bugs fixed:
  - Eliminated the explicit use of RubyGems in both bin/htmldiff and bin/ldiff.
    Resolves issue 4 (https://github.com/halostatue/diff-lcs/issues/4).
  - Eliminated Ruby warnings. Resolves issue 3
    (https://github.com/halostatue/diff-lcs/issues/3).

== 1.1.2 / 2004-10-20
* Fixed a problem reported by Mauricio Fernandez in htmldiff.

== 1.1.1 / 2004-09-25
* Fixed bug #891:
  http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?func=detail&atid=407&aid=891&group_id=84
* Fixed a problem with callback initialisation code (it assumed that all
  callbacks passed as classes can be initialised; now, it rescues
  NoMethodError in the event of private :new being called).
* Modified the non-initialisable callbacks to have a private #new method.
* Moved ldiff core code to Diff::LCS::Ldiff (diff/lcs/ldiff.rb).

== 1.1.0 / -
* Eliminated the need for Diff::LCS::Event and removed it.
* Added a contextual diff callback, Diff::LCS::ContextDiffCallback.
* Implemented patching/unpatching for standard Diff callback output formats
  with both #diff and #sdiff.
* Extensive documentation changes.

== 1.0.4 / -
* Fixed a problem with bin/ldiff output, especially for unified format.
  Newlines that should have been present weren't.
* Changed the .tar.gz installer to generate Windows batch files if ones do not
  exist already. Removed the existing batch files as they didn't work.

== 1.0.3 / -
* Fixed a problem with #traverse_sequences where the first difference from the
  left sequence might not be appropriately captured.

== 1.0.2 / -
* Fixed an issue with ldiff not working because actions were changed from
  symbols to strings.

== 1.0.1 / -
* Minor modifications to the gemspec, the README.
* Renamed the diff program to ldiff (as well as the companion batch file) so as
  to not collide with the standard diff program.
* Fixed issues with RubyGems. Requires RubyGems > 0.6.1 or >= 0.6.1 with the
  latest CVS version.

== 1.0 / -
* Initial release based mostly on Perl's Algorithm::Diff.
