= Rake 0.5.0 Released

It has been a long time in coming, but we finally have a new version
of Rake available.

== Changes

* Fixed bug where missing intermediate file dependencies could cause
  an abort with --trace or --dry-run.  (Brian Candler)

* Recursive rules are now supported (Tilman Sauerbeck).

* Added tar.gz and tar.bz2 support to package task (Tilman Sauerbeck).

* Added warning option for the Test Task (requested by Eric Hodel).

* The jamis rdoc template is only used if it exists.

* Added fix for Ruby 1.8.2 test/unit and rails problem.

* Added contributed rake man file. (Jani Monoses)

* Fixed documentation that was lacking the Rake module name (Tilman
  Sauerbeck).

== What is Rake

Rake is a build tool similar to the make program in many ways.  But
instead of cryptic make recipes, Rake uses standard Ruby code to
declare tasks and dependencies.  You have the full power of a modern
scripting language built right into your build tool.

== Availability

The easiest way to get and install rake is via RubyGems ...

  gem install rake    (you may need root/admin privileges)

Otherwise, you can get it from the more traditional places:

Home Page:: http://rake.rubyforge.org/
Download::  http://rubyforge.org/project/showfiles.php?group_id=50

== Thanks

Lots of people provided input to this release.  Thanks to Tilman
Sauerbeck for numerous patches, documentation fixes and suggestions.
And for also pushing me to get this release out.  Also, thanks to
Brian Candler for the finding and fixing --trace/dry-run fix.  That
was an obscure bug.  Also to Eric Hodel for some good suggestions.

-- Jim Weirich

