= Rake 0.9.1 Released

Rake version 0.9.1 has a number of bug fixes and enhancments (see
below for more details).  Additionally, the internals have be slightly
restructured and improved.

== Changes

Rake 0.9.1 adds back the global DSL methods, but with deprecation
messages.  This allows Rake 0.9.1 to be used with older rakefiles with
warning messages.

== What is Rake

Rake is a build tool similar to the make program in many ways. But
instead of cryptic make recipes, Rake uses standard Ruby code to
declare tasks and dependencies. You have the full power of a modern
scripting language built right into your build tool.

== Availability

The easiest way to get and install rake is via RubyGems ...

  gem install rake    (you may need root/admin privileges)

Otherwise, you can get it from the more traditional places:

Home Page:: http://rake.rubyforge.org/
Download::  http://rubyforge.org/project/showfiles.php?group_id=50
GitHub::    git://github.com/jimweirich/rake.git

== Thanks

As usual, it was input from users that drove a alot of these changes. The
following people either contributed patches, made suggestions or made
otherwise helpful comments.  Thanks to ...

* James M. Lawrence (quix)
* Roger Pack
* Cezary Baginski
* Sean Scot August Moon
* R.T. Lechow
* Alex Chaffee
* James Tucker
* Matthias Lüdtke
* Santiago Pastorino

Also, bit thanks to Eric Hodel for assisting with getting this release
out the door (where "assisting" includes, but is not by any means
limited to, "pushing" me to get it done).

-- Jim Weirich
