= Rake 0.7.1 Released

Version 0.7.1 supplies a bug fix and a few minor enhancements.

== Changes

=== Bug Fixes in 0.7.1

* Changes in the exception reported for the FileUtils.ln caused
  safe_ln to fail with a NotImplementedError.  Rake 0.7.1 will now
  catch that error or any StandardError and properly fall back to
  using +cp+.

=== New Features in 0.7.1

* You can filter the results of the --task option by supplying an
  optional regular expression.  This allows the user to easily find a
  particular task name in a long list of possible names.

* Transforming procs in a rule may now return a list of prerequisites.
  This allows more flexible rule formation.

* FileList and String now support a +pathmap+ melthod that makes the
  transforming paths a bit easier.  See the API docs for +pathmap+ for
  details.

* The -f option without a value will disable the search for a
  Rakefile.  This allows the Rakefile to be defined entirely in a
  library (and loaded with the -r option).  The current working
  directory is not changed when this is done.

== What is Rake

Rake is a build tool similar to the make program in many ways.  But
instead of cryptic make recipes, Rake uses standard Ruby code to
declare tasks and dependencies.  You have the full power of a modern
scripting language built right into your build tool.

== Availability

The easiest way to get and install rake is via RubyGems ...

  gem install rake    (you may need root/admin privileges)

Otherwise, you can get it from the more traditional places:

Home Page:: http://rake.rubyforge.org/
Download::  http://rubyforge.org/project/showfiles.php?group_id=50

== Thanks

As usual, it was input from users that drove a alot of these changes.
The following people either contributed patches, made suggestions or
made otherwise helpful comments.  Thanks to ...

* James Britt and Assaph Mehr for reporting and helping to debug the
  safe_ln issue.

-- Jim Weirich
