== 1.?? / ????-??-??
* Resolve issue #8 (https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/8).
  Apparently some people run the tests on Linux. Imagine that. :)

== 1.18 / 2012-03-20
* New MIME Types:
  * Types reported in Issue #6 (https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/6):
    * CoffeeScript (text/x-coffeescript; .coffee; 8bit).
    * AIR (application/vnd.adobe.air-applicationinstaller-package+zip, .air; base64).
    * WOFF (application/font-woff; .woff; base64).
    * TrueType (application/x-font-truetype; .ttf; base64).
    * OpenType (application/x-font-opentype; .otf; base64).
  * WebM (audio/webm, video/webm; .webm). Issue #11 (https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/11).
* New extensions:
  * f4v/f4p (video/mp4, used by Adobe); f4a/fb4 (audio/mp4, used by Adobe).
* Bug Fixes:
  * It was pointed out that Licence.txt was incorrectly named. Fixed by renaming to Licence.rdoc (from Issue/Pull Request #8, https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/8).
  * It was pointed out that a plan to have the test output generated automatically never went through. Issue #10 (https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/10)

== 1.17.2 / 2011-10-25
* Bug Fixes:
  * Fixed an issue with Ruby 1.9 and file encoding.

== 1.17.1 / 2011-10-23
* Minor Enhancements:
  * Implemented modern 'hoe' semantics.
  * Switched to minitest instead of test/unit.
  * Converted documentation from .txt to .rdoc.
  * Removed setup.rb. (Issue #3:
    https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/3).
  * Should no longer complain about missing RubyGems keys (Issue #2:
    https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/2).
  * Added .mp4 and .mpg4 as recognized extensions for
    {application,audio,video}/mp4 per RFC4337. (Issue #1:
    https://github.com/halostatue/mime-types/issues/1).
  * Added audio/x-aac and .aac per RubyForge issue #28054
    (http://rubyforge.org/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=28054&group_id=293&atid=1194).
  * Made it much easier to update MIME types from this point forward.
  * Updated MIME types from IANA.

== 1.16
* Made compatible with Ruby 1.8.6, 1.8.7, and 1.9.1.
* Switched to the 'hoe' gem system and added a lot of build-time tools.
* Updated the MIME types to the list based on the values in the Perl library
  version 1.27. Also updated based on external source information and bug
  reports.
* This is the last planned version of MIME::Types 1.x. Work will be
  starting soon on MIME::Types 2.x with richer data querying mechanisms
  and support for external data sources.

== 1.15
* Removed lib/mime/type.rb to form a single MIME::Types database source. It
  is unlikely that one will ever need MIME::Type without MIME::Types.
* Re-synchronized the MIME type list with the sources, focusing primarily on
  the IANA list.
* Added more detailed source information for MIME::Type objects.
* Changed MIME::Types from a module to a class with a default instance. There
  should be no difference in usage.
* Removed MIME::Types::DATA_VERSION; it is now an attribute on the
  MIME::Types instance.
* NOTE: Synchronization with the Perl version of MIME::Types is no longer a
  priority as of this release. The data format and information has changed.
* Removed MIME::Types.by_suffix and MIME::Types.by_mediatype.

== 1.13.1
* Fixed a problem with the installer running tests. This now works.
* Improved the implementation of MIME::Type.signature?
* Moved code around to use the class << self idiom instead of always
  prepending the module/class name.
* Added two new best-guess implementations of functions found in Perl's
  MIME::Types implementation (1.13). Do not rely on these until the purpose
  and implementation is stabilised.
* Updated the MIME list to reflect changes noted by
  Ville Skyttä <ville.skytta@iki.fi>.
* Added a new constant to MIME::Types, DATA_VERSION. This will allow the Ruby
  version number to be updated separately from the Perl version while keeping
  the MIME Type list version in sync.

== 1.13
  ! WARNING: This version changes the API of MIME::Types !
  ! WARNING: This version is compatible with Ruby 1.8 and higher ONLY !
* Removed dependency on InstallPackage; offering 1.13 as either .tar.gz or
  .gem.
* Split into two files, mime/type.rb and mime/types.rb. This will make
  maintaining the list of changes easier.
* Changed the MIME::Type construction API. Accepts only a single String
  argument (but does no named type-checking) and yields self.
* Removed private methods #init_extensions, #init_encoding, and #init_system
  and replaced with #extensions=, #encoding=, and #system=.
* Added #default_encoding to return 'quoted-printable' or 'base64' depending
  on the media type of the MIME type.
* Added #raw_media_type and #raw_sub_type to provide the non-simplified
  versions of the media type and subtype.
* Alternative constructors MIME::Type.from_array, MIME::Type.from_hash, and
  MIME::Type.from_mime_type added to compensate for the removal of named type
  checking in the original constructor.
* Added #to_str, #to_a, and #to_hash methods. The latter two will provide
  output suitable for use in #from_array and #from_hash.
* Removed "binary" encoding and enforced the use of a valid encoding string.
* Added #system? returning true if the MIME::Type is an OS-specific
  MIME::Type.
* Added #platform? returning true if the MIME::Type is an OS-specific
  MIME::Type for the current RUBY_PLATFORM.
* Added #like? returning true if the simplified type matches the other value
  provided. #<'application/x-excel'>.like?('application/excel') is true.
* Added #complete? returning true if the MIME::Type specifies an extension
  list.
* Updated the MIME type list to reflect additions by Mark Overmeer for Perl's
  MIME::Types 1.12 and the official IANA list as of 2004.04.06. A number of
  formerly "registered" MIME types are now no longer registered (e.g.,
  application/excel is now application/x-excel). This ensures that the
  simplified type still works with applications, but does not report an
  unregistered type as registered.
* Restored MIME type list to Mark Overmeer's format to facilitate easy
  exchange between the two projects.
* Added additional unit tests from Mark Overmeer's 1.12 version.

== 1.07
* Changed version numbering to match Perl MIME::Types 1.07.
* Re-synchronized with Mark Overmeer's list in Perl PMIME::Types 1.07.
* [NN Poster] updated the attributes for the PGP types.

== 1.005
* Changed to Phil Thomson's InstallPackage.
* Added several types from Perl MIME::Types 1.005.
* Cleaned up data format; some data formats will show up with proper data now.

== 1.004
* Updated to match Perl MIME::Types 1.004, links credited to Dan Puro. Adds
  new reference list to http://www.indiana.edu/cgi-bin-local/mimetypes
* Removed InvalidType and replaced with TypeError.
* Changed instances of #type to #class.
* Cleaned up how simplified versions are created.

== 1.003
* Initial release based on Perl MIME::Types 1.003.
