documentation/cli/msfconsole.md, before:

msfconsole
==========

`msfconsole` is the primary interface to Metasploit Framework. There is quite a
lot that needs go here, please be patient and keep an eye on this space!

Building ranges and lists
-------------------------

Many commands and options that take a list of things can use ranges to avoid
having to manually list each desired thing. All ranges are inclusive.

### Ranges of IDs

Commands that take a list of IDs can use ranges to help. Individual IDs must be
separated by a `,` (no space allowed) and ranges can be expressed with either
`-` or `..`.

### Ranges of IPs

There are several ways to specify ranges of IP addresses that can be mixed
together. The first way is a list of IPs separated by just a ` ` (ASCII space),
with an optional `,`. The next way is two complete IP addresses in the form of
`BEGINNING_ADDRESS-END_ADDRESS` like `127.0.1.44-127.0.2.33`. CIDR
specifications may also be used, however the whole address must be given to
Metasploit like `127.0.0.0/8` and not `127/8`, contrary to the RFC.
Additionally, a netmask can be used in conjunction with a domain name to
dynamically resolve which block to target. All these methods work for both IPv4
and IPv6 addresses. IPv4 addresses can also be specified with special octet
ranges from the [NMAP target
specification](https://nmap.org/book/man-target-specification.html)

### Examples

Terminate the first sessions:

    sessions -k 1

Stop some extra running jobs:

    jobs -k 2-6,7,8,11..15

Check a set of IP addresses:

    check 127.168.0.0/16, 127.0.0-2.1-4,15 127.0.0.255

Target a set of IPv6 hosts:

    set RHOSTS fe80::3990:0000/110, ::1-::f0f0

Target a block from a resolved domain name:

    set RHOSTS www.example.test/24

Commit message:

Allow spaces in range arrays

documentation/cli/msfconsole.md, after:

msfconsole
==========

`msfconsole` is the primary interface to Metasploit Framework. There is quite a
lot that needs go here, please be patient and keep an eye on this space!

Building ranges and lists
-------------------------

Many commands and options that take a list of things can use ranges to avoid
having to manually list each desired thing. All ranges are inclusive.

### Ranges of IDs

Commands that take a list of IDs can use ranges to help. Individual IDs must be
separated by a `,` (spaces must be quoted in most cases) and ranges can be
expressed with either `-` or `..`.

### Ranges of IPs

There are several ways to specify ranges of IP addresses that can be mixed
together. The first way is a list of IPs separated by just a ` ` (ASCII space),
with an optional `,`. The next way is two complete IP addresses in the form of
`BEGINNING_ADDRESS-END_ADDRESS` like `127.0.1.44-127.0.2.33`. CIDR
specifications may also be used, however the whole address must be given to
Metasploit like `127.0.0.0/8` and not `127/8`, contrary to the RFC.
Additionally, a netmask can be used in conjunction with a domain name to
dynamically resolve which block to target. All these methods work for both IPv4
and IPv6 addresses. IPv4 addresses can also be specified with special octet
ranges from the [NMAP target
specification](https://nmap.org/book/man-target-specification.html)

### Examples

Terminate the first sessions:

    sessions -k 1

Stop some extra running jobs:

    jobs -k 2-6,7,8,11..15

Check a set of IP addresses:

    check 127.168.0.0/16, 127.0.0-2.1-4,15 127.0.0.255

Target a set of IPv6 hosts:

    set RHOSTS fe80::3990:0000/110, ::1-::f0f0

Target a block from a resolved domain name:

    set RHOSTS www.example.test/24
